- [Instructor] Let us now find out
how do you resolve your views
through an XML file.
The first step to do that is ,
configure the XML view resolve bean
in your application configuration.
So this is talking about the spring context configuration.
Let's go to the IDE
and grab our configuration file,
which is this one.
And inside this,
we are going to instantiate a bean.
That bean is going to be the XML view resolver.
So let's provide a method for this.
Let the return type be XML view resolver,
give the same name.
And what is this going to do?
It's going to say XML view resolver
distantiate that,
and this XML view resolver
is supposed to pick out the definitions from an XML file.
So we will have to tell this resolver
that the XML file resides at a particular location
on the class path.
How do we do that?
you can invoke an API. So let's go to the next slide
and save view resolver.set location,
and this location will be a class path resource,
so you can instantiate the class path resource
and provide the name
of that XML file.
And once you do that,
let's just return this view resolver.
Now if you see
this view stored XML,
is a class path resource.
Let's see if there is a class path resource like that.
There is no class but resource right now.
So Fine,
we'll have to create one.
So let's go to the resources folder,
right click,
new file,
and name that as views.XML.
So this is the view.XML file,
where we are going to define our views.
Each view name
is going to be mapped
to its corresponding JSP path.
Now all the views that you define in this XML file
are going to be registered as Spring beans.
So let's find out how to first register spring beans.
So I'm going to open a window
and find out about that.
So I'll say spring beans XSD declaration.
And if you go here,
this is docs.spring.io,
which is like the official documentation.
If you go right down,
it should somewhere give you the syntax
for that XML declaration for bean.
So here you go,
this is the one.
So I'm just going to pick this up,
copy,
come back to the IDE,
and paste it here.
Now whatever you see in front of you right here
is basically the beans declaration XSD,
that is a part of the spring framework.
So all the beans that you register
as a part of the spring context container
are generally defined with this existing.
We have been doing Java configuration all this while,
so we have never used XML.
But now we're going to do this explicitly
for a view resolution.
So let's go ahead
and define some views here.
In our XML file.
That will be done like this.
So you have a bean bag,
give it an ID.
Now this ID will be exactly the same as the view name
that you have defined as a return type
in your controller. If you wish to see that,
let's quickly go there.
So let's say this is your home controller.
And we know that you always specify the view name like that
in the return statement.
So whenever you define the ID
for that bean in the XML,
this is what you should exactly map.
So I'm going to let's say, take this copy,
go to use XML
and put that value in the ID.
So now what we're trying to do is,
we're saying that there is a view by the name index,
and it is supposed to be displayed as a JSP.
Yes, and the GSB template is supposed to be picked up
from certain part.
So all that configuration
is a part of this being done.
So let's go further
and define more things.
There's a class attribute on it,
and that class attribute is exactly same
as your JSDL view glass.
So I'm just going to open the application config
in order to do a quick recap
so that we don't get confused.
If you look at internal resource view resolver on line 29,
we had set the view class to JSTL view
so that the rendering of the JSP is easy.
The same view class
has to be set in the XML now.
So if you just go to this class,
and you can pick up the fully qualified class name
of JSTL view,
copy that from line six,
come to view strat XML
and paste that all.
And of course,
give the JSDL view class name.
So we're saying that
there is a view by the name index,
which we are supposed to be rendering with JSTL view.
Let's go ahead and define a property.
This property name is URL,
and what is this going to signify?
This is going to provide the part
of that index GSP.
So that we will be,
let's get the value attribute for it.
And that will be webinf/gsp/index.jsp.
And then let's close it up.
So they (mumbles) great,
we have already defined
a view inside an XML file.
Similarly, we can do this definition
for all the other views.
So I'm just going to plug in three other views
in this XML file.
Let's copy lines number nine to 11.
Let's come down
and paste this at least four times
and then do the changes for the other view.
So let's say we have the search view,
what will change everything is the same,
just a name of the JSP under the property tag on line 14
is something that's going to be different.
So that is going to be search.jsp.
Similarly, you can define that
for registered.JSP.
Let me make that change on line 18 to,
for the name of the JSP
and line Number 21.
Let's define a view for the login page
which will point to the login JSP.
As simple as that.
So what we have done is,
we have defined an XML,
which is very conventionally picking up
the spring, frameworks, beans, XSD.
And we are defining all the views
in the form of being DAX.
They just registration of the views here.
And now inside this application config,
we have already spawned an XML view resolver.
So this XML view resolver
is going to take a look at your views XML,
and then it will find out the name of the view,
find out its part
and resolve the view
and display the content in the browser.
That is what it is going to do.
So the last step will be of course to,
build and run the application.
However, there's one last thing that we have to do.
Let's go to config.
And now let's come in this out.
We do not want to resolve the views
using internal resource view resolver,
because we are employing an XML view resolver
for the same job.
So I'm going to come in this out,
like that,
and then let's do the build.
The build is gone well.
So now when we run the application,
all four pages,
which is index, search,
register,
and login.
Everything has to be resolved correctly,
we do not have the internal resource view resolver anymore.
So this should work fine,
the XML view resolver is now into action.
Let's go check it out.
So I'm just going to go ahead
and search home first.
Yay, we got there
That's the index.JSP.
Let's check login.
That works too.
Let's go back home.
Let's go to search.
That works Well.
Let's go to login again.
Let's go to register, Yes.
So all our views
are now being referenced by this XML file.
That is it.
This is how you can resolve views
using an XML file.
And of course with the XML view resolver bean.